feat(control_allocator): reversible-motor failure recovery for hexarotors (#28078)
PX4/PX4-Autopilot: docs/en/dronecan/escs.md

- Select the specific CAN interface(s) used for ESC data output using the [UAVCAN_ESC_IFACE](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#UAVCAN_ESC_IFACE) parameter (all that all interfaces are selected by default).
- Configure the [motor order and servo outputs](../config/actuators.md).

## Reversible Motors {#reversible-motors}

<Badge type="tip" text="PX4 v1.18" />

Motors that are configured as [bidirectional](../config/actuators.md#bidirectional-motors) are commanded with a _signed_ `uavcan.equipment.esc.RawCommand` value, as defined by the DroneCAN ESC message: zero is stop, positive is forward and negative is reverse.

> Motors that are not configured as bidirectional are commanded with positive values only, as before.

Reviewer: Not needed here.
```suggestion
Motors that are not configured as bidirectional are commanded with positive values only.
```

- Select the specific CAN interface(s) used for ESC data output using the [UAVCAN_ESC_IFACE](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#UAVCAN_ESC_IFACE) parameter (all that all interfaces are selected by default).
- Configure the [motor order and servo outputs](../config/actuators.md).

## Reversible Motors {#reversible-motors}

<Badge type="tip" text="PX4 v1.18" />

> 

Reviewer: FYI only I restructured this. IMO the thing to start with is the list of all the things you need for a reversible dronecan motor. Then we go into the detail of how it works.

- Select the specific CAN interface(s) used for ESC data output using the [UAVCAN_ESC_IFACE](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#UAVCAN_ESC_IFACE) parameter (all that all interfaces are selected by default).
- Configure the [motor order and servo outputs](../config/actuators.md).

## Reversible Motors {#reversible-motors}

> <Badge type="tip" text="main (PX4 v1.19)" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Badge type="tip" text="main (PX4 v2.0)" />
```

Motors can be reversible "on the fly" (bidirectional) if the motor hardware supports reversal, the ESC firmware is configured for 3D/bidirectional operation, and the motor is set as [bidirectional](../config/actuators.md#bidirectional-motors) in the actuator configuration.

When configured as bidirectional, PX4 commands the motor with a _signed_ `uavcan.equipment.esc.RawCommand` value, as defined by the DroneCAN ESC message protocol:

- **Zero:** Motor stop / neutral
- **Positive values:** Forward thrust
- **Negative values:** Reverse thrust

Motors that are not configured as bidirectional continue to receive positive values only.

::: tip Verifying Operation
Check the sign of the RPM reported in the ESC telemetry to confirm that the ESC is interpreting negative commands correctly and actively spinning the motor in reverse.
:::

Reversible motors may also be used in [Motor Failure Recovery](../config/motor_failure_recovery.md) to keep a hexarotor controllable after a single motor failure.

> That case still needs ESCs configured for reversal, but not the bidirectional setting in the actuator configuration, because PX4 makes the recovery motor reversible while it handles the failure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That case still needs ESCs configured for reversal.
However it is not necessary to set the motor as bidirectional in the actuator configuration, because PX4 makes the recovery motor reversible as it handles the failure.
```
